.\" $Id: killcmd.man, 1999/11/10 12:30 jfb $
.\"
.\" The author makes no claims as to the fitness or correctness of this software
.\" for any use whatsoever, and it is provided as is. Any use of this software
.\" is at the user's own risk. 
.\"
.TH PIDOF @BIGMANSEC@ 1999/11/10
.SH NAME
killcmd \- terminate or signal processes by process name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B killcmd
[ \-q ] [ \-u | \-U
.IR username
] [
.IR \-signal
]
.IR process_name
[
.IR process_name \|.\|.\|.
]
.br
.B killcmd
-l
.SH DESCRIPTION
For each
.I process_name
that corresponds to a running process,
.B killcmd
signals the corresponding process id(s) with the specified signal or
with SIGTERM if no signal is specified.
.I process_name
should not contain a directory component. If it does, no processes
will be matched.
.SH COMMAND\-LINE OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-l
List available signal names. This option may not be used with other options.
.TP
.B \-q
Do not display error messages.
.TP
.B \-u
Attempt to signal only those processes owned by the current user. This
option is most useful for the super-user.
.TP
.B \-U username
Kill all processes owned by
.IR username.
This option only makes sense when invoked by the super-user.
.TP
.B \-signal
Send
.I signal
to the named processes. If no
.I signal
is given, a SIGTERM will be sent.
.LP
.SH RETURN CODES
An exit status of zero indicates that a process name was matched to
a current process id.  An exit status of one indicates that no
processes with the given
.I process_name
were found to be running.
.SH CAVEATS
If any
.I process_name
is PRFNSZ\-1 characters long or longer, there is a possibility of an
ambiguous match. PRFNSZ is currently defined as 16 in <sys/procfs.h>,
so 15 characters is the point at which a
.I process_name
can become ambiguous.
.LP
The -U flag cannot be used for any users named SR1, SR2, or RG. I feel
that the likelihood of users existing with these names is small enough
that I need not bother working out a fix.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR kill (1),
.BR kill (2),
.BR pidof (@MANSEC@)
.SH AUTHOR
Jeff Blank, jfb@mr-happy.com
